
Version 4.0.0 Released
======================

November 14, 2016

The release of 4.0.0 introduces some changes that are not backwards-compatible
with previous versions, focusing mainly on the API to control SSL behavior with
the new ``context`` pattern described below.

Change Log In Detail
--------------------

Added
~~~~~

* New :mod:`slimta.util` functions for limiting outbound connections to IPv4.

  The need for this change reflects some of the difficulty currently in
  delivering mail to hosts with IPv6 addresses configured. It is provided for
  convenience and not used by default.

* New :attr:`~slimta.logging.socket.socket_error_log_level` variable for better
  log level control.

  This change was put in place for log systems that have special behavior
  configured for error-level events, such as monitoring alerts or other
  metrics. Because socket errors are non-fatal and often simply informative,
  it is often useful for them to be warning- or info-level logs.

Changed
~~~~~~~

* Constructors and functions that took a ``tls`` dictionary now take a
  ``context`` argument that should be an :py:class:`~ssl.SSLContext` object.
  This allows finer control of encryption behavior, as well as the ability to
  pre-load sensitive certificate data before daemonization.

  Since this project began with Python 2.6 support, it relied on using the
  :py:func:`ssl.wrap_socket` function to take care of SSL encryption when
  desired. Among other things, this has the disadvantage of needing to load key
  and certificate files for every new socket! In addition to being a waste of
  system resources, for a daemonized service this had implications around the
  permissions of the process and key/cert files. The primary change of this
  release is the switch to using :py:class:`ssl.SSLContext`. This is made
  possible by the previous dropping of support for Python 2.6 and now 3.3 as
  well. Hopefully these changes help mail server implementations stay secure.

* Client connections will now be opportunistic and try to use TLS if it is
  available, even if a key or cert have not been configured.

  Since client-side SSL sessions require little-to-no explicit configuration,
  it should be made the default behavior in most situations to use SSL when
  available.

* The ``AUTH`` SMTP extension will now advertise insecure authentication
  mechanisms without TLS, but trying to use them will fail.

  Some clients that are required to authenticate may look for the ``AUTH``
  extension in the EHLO results before encrypting the session. Now, the
  extension will be advertized, but attempts to use insecure auth mechanisms
  such as ``PLAIN`` will fail as specified by the RFC.

* Moved the `slimta.system` module to `slimta.util.system` to de-clutter the
  top-level namespace.

Fixed
~~~~~

* Fixed a possible race condition on enqueue.

  Thanks to `Bryce Drennan <https://github.com/brycedrennan>`_ for the `pull
  request <https://github.com/slimta/python-slimta/pull/107>`_!

* Fixed exception when given empty EHLO/HELO string.

  Thanks to `Geoffrey Lehée <https://github.com/toxinu>`_ for the `pull request
  <https://github.com/slimta/python-slimta/pull/112>`_!

* Fixed the fallback from EHLO to HELO in certain situations.

  Thanks to `thestick613 <https://github.com/thestick613>`_ for the `pull
  request <https://github.com/slimta/python-slimta/issues/103>`_!

* The :attr:`~slimta.edge.smtp.SmtpValidators.session` ``auth`` attribute now
  correctly contains the tuple described in the documentation.
